
Notes on the thin film curvature/stress measurements:

Thin film measurements are performed by Polette Centellas and Gery Stafford 
using a stress bench setup equipped with a multi-beam optical stress sensor 
that monitors changes in the thin film curvature during thermal cycling 
experiments. The thin film sample is cycled between 35 °C and 65 °C for at 
least 10 heat-cool cycles. The curvature resolution is typically 
2 × 10E-4 1/m, or 5 km radius of curvature. The film stress is calculated 
from the thin film curvature according to Stoney’s formula for an arbitrary 
thickness and modulus ratio between the film and substrate. 

Similar film curvature measurements are performed by Karl F. Schoch, Jr. In 
these experiments, the curvature is measured during the curing process (60 min 
at 100 °C followed by 60 min at 165 °C). Once the curing schedule is completed, 
the film is cooled back to room temperature and then cycled to 150 °C for three 
heat-cool cycles. The film is left for 1 month at ambient conditions, and then 
heat-cooled for two cycles between 25 °C and 200 °C.  

Water vapor sorption-desorption experiments are performed by Huong Giang Nguyen 
using a VTI-SA+ automated vapor sorption analyzer (TA Instruments, USA) at 
ambient pressure and with nitrogen (99.999 % purity) as the carrier gas. The 
desired percent relative humidity (% RH) is obtained by continuously mixing a 
dry nitrogen flow with a humid nitrogen flow. The instrument has a ± 0.1 μg 
mass resolution and a ± 1 % RH control standard uncertainty based on 
manufacturer specifications. A small sample is first conditioned for 6 h at
65 °C under pure nitrogen flow (0 % RH). For sorption experiments, the 
sample environment is then set to 60 % RH for approximately 10 h at an 
isothermal temperature (25 °C and 50 °C). Then, the sample environment is set 
to 2 % RH for approximately 6 h at the same isothermal temperature to 
investigate the desorption behavior. Mass changes during the experiments 
are calculated relative to the dry mass measured at the end of the conditioning
stage.  

Complete test methods and raw data are available upon reasonable request.

